[Alerting V2][9.5 & Serverless] Treat signals as a first-class path across the experimental alerting docs (#7816)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/system-overview.md

products:
  - id: kibana
  - id: cloud-serverless
description: The experimental Kibana alerting system uses ES|QL rules to detect conditions, then either track matches as alert episodes with notifications or record signals for later analysis.
---

# {{alerting-v2-system-cap}} overview [system-overview]

The {{alerting-v2-system}} in {{kib}} watches your {{es}} data continuously, so your team doesn't have to. You define the conditions that matter, and select whether each match opens a tracked alert episode or records a signal for later analysis. The system handles the rest.

::::{note}

> In the generally available {{kib}} alerting system, the term **alert** refers to a tracked occurrence of a rule condition. In the {{alerting-v2-system}}, the equivalent concept is called an **alert episode**. GA alerting APIs, UI, and instructions that reference alerts don't apply to alert episodes, and {{alerting-v2-system}} APIs, UI, and instructions that reference alert episodes don't apply to alerts.

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be more clear to say something like "APIs, UI, and instructions only apply to the concepts within their own system." Maybe not, just wrapping my brain around the alert episodes/alerts can be difficult (as i'm sure you're aware).

Author: Simpler is better, especially with these systems overlapping in various ways. I'll incorporate this ^

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7816/changes/2db426754e35e147dcee2d47dc0015b209608cf7.

::::

## The core idea [core-idea]

> The {{alerting-v2-system}} starts with a rule evaluating your data. When the rule detects a match, it either creates an alert episode or records the match as a signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{alerting-v2-system}} starts with a rule evaluating your data. When the rule detects a match, it either creates an alert episode (Alert mode) or records the match as a signal (Signal mode).
```
Would it make sense to mention Signal and Alert mode in the intro here? Not really sure that this is the right way to handle that.

Author: I need to modify the para after the image. I introduced the Alert and Signal mode terms without defining them first. : /

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/7816/changes/2db426754e35e147dcee2d47dc0015b209608cf7.

:::{image} /explore-analyze/images/basic-system-flow.png
:alt: Flowchart showing that after a rule detects a match, it either creates an alert episode or records a signal
:::

> Because acting and recording are independent, you can switch a rule between Signal mode and Alert mode as your needs change, for example, testing a rule in Signal mode before switching it to Alert mode and setting up notifications. Notifications are handled separately from rules by action policies, so you can also update where notifications go for many rules at once, without editing each rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because acting and recording are independent, you can switch a rule between Signal mode and Alert mode as your needs change, for example, testing a rule in Signal mode before switching it to Alert mode and setting up notifications. Notifications are handled separately by action policies, so you can update where notifications are sent for multiple rules without editing each rule individually.
```

> ## The four building blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The building blocks
```

Author: good catch, thanks!
